# Ford Bike Dataset

## Dataset: 
#### https://s3.amazonaws.com/fordgobike-data/index.html
The FordGo Bike Dataset includes information about a bike-sharing system. Multiple data files will be joined together to get a full year’s coverage. The features included in the dataset : Start Time and Date , End Time and Date , Start Station ID , Start Station Name , Start Station Latitude , Start Station Longitude , Trip Duration (seconds), End Station ID , End Station Name, End Station Latitude , End Station Longitude, Bike ID ,Member Year of Birth, Member Year of Birth, Member Gender (Male, Female, Other), User Type (Subscriber or Customer.

## Summary
FortGo Rent a bike system is an incredible idea which is healthy and environmental friendly. It could be used for both pleasure and business. There are basically two types of users in this system. Subscribers which are in majority 88.6%, they use it for work and business, that is why their trip durations are shorter (only 11 minutes), where as Customers are minority with 11.4%, they use it for leisure and fun purposes that's why their trip durations are much higher (27 minutes). Overall in these both types of users, Females have the highest trip duration in minutes, which is 31.280.

## Key Insights from Presentation
In the presentation, I focus on customer habits in 2020. Since the Ford GoBike System currently offers 2 subscribtion types: Customers and Subscribers, I start by introducing the split between those who use the system occasionally (Customers) and those who have a membership (Subscribters). Afterwards, I move to average trip duration (in minutes) of different user groups. There I found out that, Subscribers are more likey to take short trips (11 minutes), while Customers are more likey to take long trips (27 minutes) because Customers use it only for entertainment, and leisure purpose. Afterwards, I use the heatmap to show Duration of Trip (in minutes) of Different Genders and Different Users. From the heatmap the insights extracted are: In Customer group the least trip duration (in minutes) is of Males i.e 25.735, which is quite surprising. In Subscriber group also, the least trip duration (in minutes) is of Male i.e 10.349. Overall, females have the highest trip duration (in minutes) that is 31.280 in both groups.
